[MUSIC]
Hi, in this lesson we
will talk about the very
first steps a good data scientist
takes when he is given a new data set.
Mainly, exploratory data analysis or
EDA in short.
By the end of this lesson, you will know,
what are the most important things from
data understanding and exploration
prospective we need to pay attention to.
This knowledge is required
to build good models and
achieve high places on the leader board.
We will first discuss what exploratory
data analysis is and why we need it.
We will then go through important
parts of EDA process and
see examples of what we
can discover during EDA.
Next we will take a look at the tools
we have to perform exploration.
What plots to draw and
what functions from pandas and
matplotlib libraries can be useful for us.
We will also briefly discuss a very
basic data set cleaning process
that is convenient to perform
while exploring the data.
And finally we'll go through
exploration process for
the Springleaf competition
hosted on Kaggle some time ago.
In this video we'll start talking
about Exploratory Data Analysis.
What is Exploratory Data Analysis?
It's basically a process of looking
into the data, understanding it and
getting comfortable with it.
Getting comfortable with a task,
probably always the first thing you do.
To solve a problem,
you need to understand a problem,
and to know what you
are given to solve it.
In data science, complete data
understanding is required to generate
powerful features and
to build accurate models.
In fact while you explore the data,
you build an intuition about it.
And when the data is intuitive for you,
you can generate hypothesis
about possible new features and
eventually find some insights in the data
which in turn can lead to a better score.
We will see the example of what EDA
can give us later in this lesson.
Well, one may argue that
there is another way to go.
Read the data from the hard drive,
never look at it and
feed the classifier immediately.They use
some pretty advanced modeling techniques,
like mixing, stacking, and eventually get
a pretty good score on the leaderboard.
Although this approach sometimes works,
it cannot take you to the very
top positions and let you win.
Top solutions always use advanced and
aggressive modeling.
But usually they have
something more than that.
They incorporated insights from the data,
and
to find those insights,
they did a careful EDA.
While we need to admit the raw
computations where all you can do is
modeling and EDA will not help
you to build a better model.
It is usually the case when
the data is anonymized,
encrypted, pre-processed, and obfuscated.
But look it will any way need to perform
EDA to realize that this is the case and
you better spend more time on modeling and
make a server busy for a month.
One of the main EDA
tools is Visualization.
When we visualize the data,
we immediately see the patterns.
And with this, ask ourselves,
what are those patterns?
Why do we see them?
And finally, how do we use those
patters to build a better model?
It also can be another way around.
Maybe we come up with a particular
hypothesis about the data.
What do we do?
We test it by making a visualization.
In one of the next videos,
we'll talk about the main visualization
tools we can use for exploration.
Just as a motivation example,
I want to tell you about the competition,
alexander D'yakonov, a former top one
at Kagel took part some time ago.
The interesting thing about this
competition is that you do not need
to do any modeling,
if you understood your data well.
In that competition,
the objective was to predict
whether a person will use the promo
that a company offers him.
So each role correspond to a particular
promo received by a person.
There are features that
describe the person, for
example his age, sex,
is he married or not and so on.
And there are features that describe
the promo, the target is 0 or
1, will he use the promo or not.
But, among all the features there
were two especially interesting.
The first one is, the number of
promos sent by the person before.
And the second is the number of
promos the person had to use before.
So let's take a particular user,
say with index 13,
and sort the rows by number
of promos sent column.
And now let's take a look
at the difference at column
the number of used promos
between two consecutive rows.
It is written here in diff column.
And look, the values in diff column in
most cases equal the target values.
And in fact, there is no magic.
Just think about
the meaning of the columns.
For example, for the second row we see
that the person used one promo already but
he was sent only one before that time.
And that is why we know that he used the
first promo and thus we have an answer for
the first row.
In general, if before the current
promo the person used n promos and
before the next promo he used that,
we know that he used n + 1 promos then we
realize that he used the current promo.
And so the answer is 1.
If we know that he used n
promos before the next promo,
exactly as before the current promo,
then obviously he did not use
the current promo and the answer is 0.
Well, it's not clear what
to do with the last row for
every user, or when we have missing rows,
but you see the point.
We didn't even run the classifier,
and we have 80% accuracy already.
This would not be possible if we didn't
do an EDA and didn't look into the data.
Also as a remark, I should say
that the presented method works
because of mistake made by
the organizers during data preparation.
These mistakes are called leaks, and
in competitions we are usually
allowed to exploit them.
We'll see more of these
examples later in this course.
So in this video we discussed the main
reasons for performing an EDA.
That is to get comfortable with the data
and to find insights in magic features.
We also saw an example where EDA and
the data understanding was
important to get a better score.
And finally, the point to take away.
When you start a competition,
you better start with EDA, and
not with hardcore modelling.
We've had a lot of things to
talk about in this lesson.
So let´s move to the next video.
[MUSIC]